A visit to the city of Salvador in Brazil
is an amazing experience.
The beaches and the city’s natural beauty
are appreciated
by the almost three million people
that live here today.
The people of the city of Salvador
are known for their friendly smile,
hospitality, and united spirit.
But something else
is remarkable in this city.
After serving in many parts of Brazil,
I noted a big difference
when I came to Salvador.
The people here have a strong inclination
toward spiritual things.
The city of Salvador
alone has just over 2,900,000 inhabitants,
around 36,800 publishers,
and almost 41,400 Bible studies
—divided into 22 circuits
and 351 congregations.
This means that there is about 1 publisher
for every 78 inhabitants.
When we find someone who’s interested,
they have either studied in the past,
their parents are Witnesses,
they already study the Bible,
or they want to study.
Such growth creates new difficulties
and challenges for Jehovah’s people.
Where will all these interested people
meet to serve Jehovah?
There in Salvador,
many brothers and sisters are concentrated
in a very small area.
We had a hard time finding properties.
Besides that,
the city is very hilly.
It’s almost impossible
to find level properties.
And then there’s the city’s zoning ordinance.
It’s very restrictive.
So finding a suitable property
was a real challenge.
But then we came across this one.
We thought, ‘Why not build there?’
That’s why these complexes are needed.
Like this one in Pituba,
which has six Kingdom Halls on one property
for 15 congregations.
There are about 20 of these complexes.
Some have four Kingdom Halls,
others have three, or two,
according to the needs locally.
This is not a standard Kingdom Hall.
We usually don’t approve or recommend
a building this size due to the complexity
in planning the project
and even in using the building.
There will be high traffic
of both people and vehicles every day
for meetings throughout the week.
But the branch
made an exception in this case
due to the large concentration
of publishers in the area.
That’s why this six-auditorium complex
was built.
It has three double Kingdom Halls
with about 200 seats
in each auditorium.
One complex I visit has two Kingdom Halls
—six congregations with about 750 publishers.
That creates another challenge.
When I meet a brother,
it’s hard to know
what congregation he belongs to,
since everybody lives
so close to each other.
For many publishers,
this was no more than just a dream:
‘A well-structured Kingdom Hall
that’s comfortable and well-ventilated
—we can’t afford that.’
One brother even said,
“It won’t happen in my lifetime.”
The hall is so big.
It has many pretty things.
I thank Jehovah
so much for having used us
to build such a beautiful place
for his worship,
and really, all credit goes to him.
I’m so grateful to him,
and I hope to praise him
even more in this Kingdom Hall
that he’s prepared for us.
It’s like a dream come true.
And now we have a suitable place
where we can worship Jehovah.
Thank you.
I don’t deserve something this wonderful.
Thank you so much.
In Salvador
and in many other regions of the earth,
we clearly see the prophecy
of Isaiah 54:2 being fulfilled
by means of the construction
of Kingdom Halls.
The natural beauty
of Salvador itself moves us
to praise the One who created it all.
But seeing how Jehovah
is speeding things up
and caring for his servants’ needs
in this crowded city
—now that’s something really special.